gg: cursor to top of file. After using gg (for example, to edit some import
	statements or add a shebang line), I often use '' (tick-tick) to jump back
	to the line I was editing at the time (for example, ggofrom foo import
	bar<esc>''). Also, I often use ggVG (go to top, enter line-visual-mode, go
	to bottom) to select the entire file. From there, I can pipe it to
	something (for example, :!sort), format it (gw) or copy it to the
	clipboard.

gj and gk: cursor to next row, cursor to previous row ("make j and k do the
		   right thing"). the j and k commands are defined as "move to next
		   line" and "move to previous line", not "move to next screen row" and
		   "move to previous screen row". this is an important distinction to
		   make when long lines are wrapped, and i find "move to next/previous
		   screen row" is a more reasonable default. protip: use noremap j gj
		   and noremap k gk in your vimrc.


gt and gT: go tab - move to next/previous tab.

gf: goto file - edit the file under the cursor. For example, if the cursor is
    over the 'e' in import "../eventDispatercherImpl.as", the equivalent of :e
    ../eventDispatercherImpl.as will be executed.

gw: go wrap. Wrap the selected text (that is, text selected in visual mode).
    Try selecting a long line (pressing V), then using gw to wrap it.
gwap: wrap a paragraph

gq: go format. Format the selected text (that is, text selected in visual mode).
gqap: wrap a paragraph

difference between gw and gq is that gw returns cursor when used with movement command
gq leaves cursor where movement command lands and is therefore able to be used with
'.' repeat. as with gqj for line-by-line formatting or gq} for paragraph by paragraph
formatting.

gv reselect last visual block
gV ?

gh, gH, g ctrl-H  start select mode in character, line and block modes respectively

10gg      goto line 10 

gr{char}  virtual replace N characters with {char}

ga        show encoding (char, dec, hex and octal) for character under cursor
